# kdevops Git references generation

## Workflow

The process involves managing and switching between Default and User Git
References for Kconfig files in the `workflows/linux/` directory. `make
menuconfig` creates and updates kdevops default references files
(`refs/default/Kconfig.*`) using [kernel.org](kernel.org) and static references
defined in a YAML configuration file (`refs/static/*.yaml`), with an update
frequency limit of 24 hours. Manual and forced updates can also be done using
`make refs-default`. `make refs-user` generates and switches to user
references files (`refs/user/Kconfig.*`), until they are cleared with `make
refs-user-clean` or `make refs-default` is run.

Here's a breakdown of the process:

*Default References Mode*

By default, references in `workflows/linux/refs/default/Kconfig.*` are used.


*User References Mode*

References in `workflows/linux/refs/user/Kconfig.*` are only used when `make
refs-user` is run. Then, `workflows/linux/refs/default/Kconfig.*` are ignored.


*Switching back to Default References Mode (from User References Mode)*

This can be accomplished by clearing the user generated references with `make
refs-user-clean` (target hidden from help) or by forcing the generation of
default references with `make refs-user`.


*Default References for Linus, Next and Stable trees: Updating Kconfig with Latest References*

`make menuconfig` automatically creates
`workflows/linux/refs/default/Kconfig.{linus, stable, next}` files using
the latest releases from [kernel.org](kernel.org) and static references from
`workflows/linux/refs/default/{linux, next, stable}.yaml`. Subsequent `make
menuconfig` runs will not regenerate these files for 24 hours after the last
update.


*Default References for Linus, Next and Stable trees: Forced Update*

Running `make refs-default` forces the update of `workflows/linux/refs/default/Kconfig.*`
files using their corresponding YAML files and [kernel.org](kernel.org) release
information.


*Default References for Development trees: Static References*

Files like
`workflows/linux/refs/default/Kconfig.{btrfs-devel, cel-linux, jlayton-linux, kdevops-linux, mcgrof-linus, mcgrof-next}`
are auto-generated and maintained in kdevops tree. When adding new references,
update
`workflow/linux/refs/static/{btrfs-devel, cel-linux, jlayton-linux, kdevops-linus, mcgrof-linus, mcgrof-next}.yaml`
manually before running `make refs-default`. Send a patch with the changes
upstream.


*User References: Generating User Git References*

Running `make refs-user` generates `workflows/linux/refs/user/Kconfig.*`
files including statically defined references and the last 15 references found
upstream. The Kconfig menu uses these new files until switching back to Default
References Mode.


## Description

kdevops facilitates the automatic generation of
[Git References](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Git-Internals-Git-References)
(or refs), ensuring that repositories used for
[bootlinux](../playbooks/roles/bootlinux/README.md) are always up to date with the
latest refs available in Kconfig.

The automation of this process is integrated into Make through `menuconfig`, and
the following targets: `refs-default` and `refs-user`.

These targets ensure that the files `refs/default/Kconfig.*` and `refs/user/Kconfig.*`
are automatically generated using the
[`scripts/generate_refs.py`](../scripts/generate_refs.py) script file.

The `refs/default/Kconfig.*` files contain both statically defined references and
the latest release version references for the Linus, Next, and Stable trees.
Since these three trees are subject to change, their `refs/default/Kconfig.*`
files are not included in the repository and are generated every time `make
menuconfig` or `make refs-default` is run. Note that with `menuconfig`, files
are only generated if 24 hours have passed since last update.

Files that usually remain unchanged, such as the one for the Mcgrof Next tree
([`workflows/linux/Kconfig.kreleases-mcgrof-next`](../workflows/linux/Kconfig.kreleases-mcgrof-next)),
(or any other Development tree) are included in the kdevops tree as they only
contain statically defined references. To update these, the accompanying
YAML file is used as input. These files are generated automatically, enabling
kdevops to augment them when `make refs-user` is run (see more below in the
user paragraph).

For example, the
[`workflows/linux/Kconfig.kreleases-mcgrof-next`](../workflows/linux/Kconfig.kreleases-mcgrof-next)
autogenerated file uses
[`workflows/linux/mcgrof-next-refs.yaml`](../workflows/linux/mcgrof-next-refs.yaml)
as an input. Extending that file is encourage when including new static references
that kdevops needs to keep track, followed by running `make refs-default` for
the `refs/default/Kconfig.mcgrof-next` to be generated.

The `refs/user/Kconfig.*` files are user-generated files containing both
statically defined references and the last 15 references found upstream for
Linus, Stable, Next and Development trees. These files will be created empty
when `make` is invoked, as they are required for Kconfig to function. However,
when `make refs-user` is run, the Kconfig menu would use these instead of
the default ones until they are manually cleared with `make refs-user-clean`.
or `make refs-default` is run.

Finally, if [kernel.org](kernel.org) is unreachable, `make refs-default` will
use only static references and `make refs-user` will produce no output.
